>> Ifill: AS UKRAINE UNRAVELS
AGAIN, GOVERNMENT TROOPS RETREAT
FROM A KEY TOWN, AND VIOLENCE
OVERWHELMS A CEASE FIRE DEAL.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, FROM
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP TO BOKO
HARAM, CONFRONTING EXTREMISM AT
HOME AND ABROAD.
>> Ifill: PLUS...
>> EVERYWHERE YOU LOOK THERE ARE
JUST MOUNTAINS OF SNOW AND
SOMETIMES YOU SAY, "IS THERE A
CAR UNDER THERE?"
>> Ifill: ...BACK TO BACK STORMS
BRING WICKED MISERY FOR THE
PEOPLE OF BOSTON.
HOW DO YOU DIG OUT OF 100 INCHES
OF SNOW?
>> DURING TORRENTIAL WINTER
DOWNPOURS NEW ENGLANDERS LIKE TO
SAY, "IMAGINE IF THIS WAS SNOW."
THIS YEAR WE HAVE BEEN ROBBED OF
OUR IMAGINATION.
>> Woodruff: AND, SNAPSHOTS OF
LOVE AND WAR.
AMERICAN PHOTOJOURNALIST LYNSEY
ADDARIO ON COVERING CONFLICT AND
TELLING STORIES WITH HER CAMERA.
ABOUT LIFTING THE CAMERA AND
TAKING A PICTURE.
TO
ME, IT'S SO MUCH ABOUT DOING
YOUR HOMEWORK, GETTING TO KNOW
THE SUBJECT, MAKING THEM FEEL
COMFORTABLE, GETTING INTIMATE
ACCESS.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIAN-BACKED
REBELS IN EASTERN UKRAINE TOOK
CONTROL OF THE STRATEGIC TOWN OF
DEBALTSEVE TODAY, LEAVING A
CEASE-FIRE TRUCE HANGING BY A
THREAD.
THE REBELS FORCED UKRAINIAN
TROOPS TO ULTIMATELY RETREAT
FROM THE RAILWAY HUB, AFTER
WEEKS OF FIGHTING.
THE SEPARATISTS ALSO CLAIMED TO
HAVE TAKEN HUNDREDS OF UKRAINIAN
FORCES HOSTAGE.
LATE TODAY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT
PETRO POROSHENKO CALLED FOR A
TEAM OF INTERNATIONAL
PEACEKEEPERS TO MONITOR THE
CEASE-FIRE.
WE'LL HAVE AN ON-THE-GROUND
REPORT FROM EASTERN UKRAINE
RIGHT AFTER THIS NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: CIVILIAN SUALCATIES IN
AFGHANISTAN ROSE BY 22% LAST
YEAR.
AN ANNUAL U.N. REPORT SHOWED
3,699 AFGHAN CIVILIANS WERE
KILLED AND NEARLY 7,000 WERE
WOUNDED.
IT ALSO FOUND MORE AFGHANS DIED
IN BATTLES BETWEEN THE TALIBAN
AND GOVERNMENT FORCES THAN FROM
BOMBS.
THAT'S A CHANGE FROM PREVIOUS
YEARS.
IN KABUL, THE HUMAN RIGHTS
DIRECTOR FOR THE U.N. MISSION
SAID WOMEN AND CHILDREN WERE
ESPECIALLY HARD HIT.
>> WE SAW A 40% INCREASE IN
CHILDREN CAUSALITIES WITH SOME
2,700 CHILDREN KILLED AND
INJURED COMPARED TO 2013 AND AN
INCREASE IN WOMEN CAUSALITIES BY
21 PERCENT, WITH SOME 300 WOMEN
KILLED AND 611 INJURED.
>> Ifill: THE RISE IN CASUALTIES
WAS ATTRIBUTED LARGELY TO THE
USE OF MORTARS, ROCKETS AND
GRENADES IN POPULATED AREAS OF
AFGHANISTAN.
>> Woodruff: A DEEP FREEZE
GRIPPED THE SOUTHEASTERN U.S.
TODAY.
SNOW AND ICE THAT BLANKETED THE
STATES THE DAY BEFORE, RE-FROZE
OVERNIGHT AND CREATED
TREACHEROUS CONDITIONS.
THE WEIGHT OF ICE-COATED
BRANCHES BROUGHT DOWN POWER
LINES.
250,000 PEOPLE IN THE REGION ARE
STILL WITHOUT ELECTRICITY.
AND EVEN COLDER TEMPERATURES ARE
LOOMING, FORECASTERS WARNED THE
MERCURY COULD PLUMMET TO RECORD
LEVELS TOMORROW.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
TAPPED JOSEPH CLANCY TO BE THE
NEXT DIRECTOR OF THE SECRET
SERVICE.
CLANCY HAD BEEN IN CHARGE ON AN
INTERIM BASIS FOR THE PAST FOUR
MONTHS.
HE'LL SUCCEED JULIA PIERSON WHO
WAS FORCED TO STEP DOWN AFTER
THE AGENCY SUFFERED A STRING OF
SECURITY LAPSES AND MISCONDUCT
SCANDALS.
>> Woodruff: OREGON HAS A NEW
GOVERNOR, AFTER ITS LONGEST
SERVING CHIEF EXECUTIVE RESIGNED
IN DISGRACE.
DEMOCRAT KATE BROWN PLEDGED TO,
"RESTORE THE PUBLIC'S TRUST"
DURING A CEREMONY AT THE STATE
CAPITOL IN SALEM.
SHE WAS PREVIOUSLY THE OREGON
SECRETARY OF STATE, THE STATE'S
SECOND MOST POWERFUL POSITION.
BROWN ALSO BECOMES THE FIRST
OPENLY BISEXUAL GOVERNOR IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: ANYONE WHO BEGAN
ENROLLING IN THE LATEST ROUND OF
SIGNUPS FOR FEDERAL HEALTH
INSURANCE WILL GET MORE TIME TO
FINISH UP.
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
SECRETARY SYLVIA BURWELL SAID
ABOUT 150,000 PEOPLE WHO
ENCOUNTERED TECHNICAL PROBLEMS
WILL BE ABLE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF AN EXTENDED FEBRUARY 22ND
DEADLINE.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAYS
11.4 MILLION AMERICANS ENROLLED
IN PRIVATE HEALTH INSURANCE
UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
DURING THE LATEST OPEN
ENROLLMENT PERIOD.
>> Woodruff: GREECE PUT THE
FINISHING TOUCHES ON A PROPOSAL
TO REQUEST AN EXTENSION LOAN
FROM ITS INTERNATIONAL
CREDITORS.
THE REQUEST HAS BEEN A MAJOR
STICKING POINT IN NEGOTIATIONS
BETWEEN THE NEW GREEK GOVERNMENT
AND THE 19 MEMBERS OF THE
EUROZONE.
THE OFFER IS EXPECTED TO BE
SUBMITTED TOMORROW, BUT GERMAN
OFFICIALS MAINTAIN GREECE HAS TO
KEEP ITS ORIGINAL BAILOUT
AGREEMENT.
>> Ifill: AND WITH ONE EYE ON
GREECE, U.S. STOCKS ENDED THE
DAY WITH MOSTLY SMALL LOSSES.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 18 POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE
18,000; THE NASDAQ ROSE SEVEN
POINTS; AND THE S&P 500 DROPPED
LESS THAN A POINT.
>> Woodruff: AND IN CHINA, OVER
200 MILLION PEOPLE TRAVELED TO
THEIR HOMETOWNS TO CELEBRATE THE
LUNAR W YENEAR, THE MOST
IMPORTANT HOLIDAY ON THE CHINESE
CALENDAR.
ACROSS THE COUNTRY, PEOPLE
WELCOMED THE "YEAR OF THE SHEEP"
WITH ELABORATE LIGHT DISPLAYS,
DANCING, AND EVEN A FIREWORKS-
LIKE PERFORMANCE USING MOLTEN
IRON.
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT DID URGE
CITIZENS TO EASE UP ON USING
FIREWORKS, TO HELP CURB TOXIC
AIR POLLUTION.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR.
UKRAINIAN TROOPS RETREAT FROM A
KEY TOWN.
CONFRONTING EXTREMISM AT HOME
AND ABROAD.
BOSTON DIGS ITS WAY OUT OF ONE-
HUNDRED INCHES OF SNOW.
WHEN SCIENCE CHALLENGES WHAT
PEOPLE WANT TO BELIEVE.
AND, THE STORY OF A
PHOTOJOURNALIST ON HER JOURNEY
TO CAPTURE LOVE AND WAR.
>> Ifill: AS WE REPORTED
EARLIER, THOUSANDS OF UKRAINIAN
TROOPS WITHDREW TODAY FROM
DEBALTSEVE IN EASTERN UKRAINE
AFTER A RELENTLESS ASSAULT BY
RUSSIAN-BACKED SEPARATISTS.
ALEX THOMSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS FROM
NEAR THE KEY TRANSIT HUB,
AS THE THREE-DAY-OLD CEASEFIRE
APPEARED TO BE UNRAVELING.
>> Reporter: THE REBEL FLAG
HOISTED OVER DEBALTSEVE TODAY.
AND ACROSS THE DAY, HUNDREDS OF
UKRAINIAN TROOPS HAVE BEEN
LEAVING TOWN TELLING STORIES
THAT SPEAK OF JUST ONE WORD:
DEFEAT.
>> ( translated ): IT WAS VERY
HEAVY.
WE COULDN'T EVEN GO TO TAKE FOOD
OR WATER.
YES, WE WERE URINATING IN A AN.C
ALL THE TIME WE WERE SITTING IN
THE BUNKER-- VERY, VERY HEAVY
SHELLING.
WE WERE PRAYING ALL THE TIME AND
SAID GOODBYE TO OUR LIVES A
HUNDRED TIMES.
THEY HAD REALLY GOOD AND HEAVY
ARTILLERY.
>> Reporter: KIEV SAYS IT IS A
TACTICAL WITHDRAWAL WITH HEAVY
WEAPONS.
BUT ITS PRESIDENT IS BEGGING THE
WORLD TO ACT.
>> ( translated ): TODE'
TAKEN NEW DEFENSIVE LINES AND
DURING MY TALKS WITH THE LEADERS
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE EUROPEAN UNION, WE
DEMANDED A HARD LINE RESPONSE BY
THE WORLD TO THE BRUTAL
VIOLATION OF THE MINSK
AGREEMENTS BY RUSSIA OF THE
CEASEFIRE REGIME FOR THE
BEGINNING OF WITHDRAWAL OF THE
ARMAMENTS AND WE WILL PREPARE
ORGANIZED AND COORDINATED
ACTIONS.
>> Reporter: THE RUSSIAN LINE,
THIS TOWN WAS ALREADY SURROUNDED
AND THUS NOT PART OF THE MINSK
PEACE DEAL, KIEV HAS ONLY ITSELF
TO BLAME.
WE HEADED NORTH FROM DONETSK
THIS MORNING AND WE WERE NOT
ALONE.
DAYS AFTER HEAVY WEAPONS SHOULD
HAVE MOVED BACK, THE REBELS WERE
MOVING FORWARD.
( GUNFIRE )
EVEN INTO THE AFTERNOON PRO-
RUSSIAN REBELS FIRING INTO
DEBALTSEVE.
>> ( translated ): AS YOU CAN
SEE, THERE'S FIGHTING.
WE'RE TAKING POSITIONS BACK FROM
THEM.
APART FROM THAT, EVERYTHING IS
FINE.
>> Reporter: "FINE" IS A
RELATIVE TERM HERE.
VUHLEHIRSK, LIKE SO MANY OTHER
PLACES, TELLS ITS OWN STORY OF
THE RECENT DAYS AND WEEKS OF
FIGHTING.
>> ( translated ): OUR HOUSE IS
DIVIDED IN TWO.
MINE IS OK, BUT MY NEIGHBOR'S IS
DESTROYED.
>> Reporter: TANKS AND ARMORED
FIGHTING VEHICLES LITTER THE
STREETS OF THIS TOWN.
WE'RE ABOUT THREE MILES FROM
DEBALTSEVE ITSELF.
IT'S DOWN THAT ROAD THERE WHERE
THE MAN ON THE BICYCLE IS GOING.
INTERMITTENT SOUNDS OF SHELLING
ALL MORNING INDICATE THAT THE
FIGHT FOR THAT TOWN IS STILL
VERY MUCH UNDERWAY.
KIEV SAYS TONIGHT AROUND 80% OF
THEIR FORCES HAVE LEFT
DEBALTSEVE.
ON THE STREETS OF VUHLEHIRSK,
THEY'VE WRITTEN THEM A MESSAGE.
THE MESSAGE ON THE GUN BARREL
READS "SEND THIS SOUVENIR TO
KIEV, TO POROSHENKO, AND TO
THEIR AMERICAN AND EUROPEAN
BACKERS."
YOU CAN'T STAY LONG IN THESE
PLACES.
WE NEEDED TO LEAVE.
BUT THEN WE MET VIKTOR, DRAGGING
HIS COAL HOME.
>> ( translated ): I WAS BORN
HERE AND I'LL DIE HERE.
( DISTANCE GUNFIRE )
WHY ARE YOU SCARED?
I'M VICTOR.
>> Reporter: JUST TELL ME, HOW
IS YOUR HOUSE?
IS IT INTACT?
>> ( translated ): WELL.
THANK GOD IT'S STILL THERE.
I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT'S NEXT.
WE LIVE DAY TO DAY.
WAR HAS NEVER MADE ANYTHING
BEAUTIFUL FOR ANYONE.
FIRST THE CHILDREN DIE BECAUSE
THEY'RE CURIOUS AND THEY'RE
FOOLISH, AND THEN THE OLDER
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: AND VIKTOR, LIKE SO
MANY HERE, HAS SEEN THAT BRUTAL
TRUTH PROVED AGAIN BEFORE HIS
EYES.
>> Ifill: TO HELP US BETTER
UNDERSTAND THE LATEST STUMBLING
BLOCK FOR THE UKRAINE
GOVERNMENT, AND THE
INTERNATIONAL REACTION, I'M
JOINED BY CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER.
MARGARET, WE JUST SAW THOSE
AMAZING PHOTOGRAPHS FROM
DEBALTSEVE.
I WONDER WHY THAT DOWN IS SO
IMPORTANT AND HOW MUCH OF A
SETBACK IS IT THAT IT WAS LOST?
>> IT'S VERY IMPORTANT BECAUSE
IT'S A LITTLE PENINSULA
SURROUNDED BY REBEL-CONTROLLED
TERRITORY AND IT'S SUCH A
CRUCIAL RAIL AND HIGHWAY HUB
THAT NOW THAT THEY CONTROL IT,
THEY CAN UNIT OR CEMENT ALL THE
LINKS BETWEEN DONETSK AND
LUHANSK AND THEY WILL HAVE
BETTER POLITICAL COMMUNICATION
AND CONTROL THERE.
SECOND, I HAVE TO A CRUCIAL,
COMMERCIAL LINK BETWEEN THE EAST
AND THE WEST OF UKRAINE THROUGH
WHICH A LOT OF INDUSTRIAL
PRODUCTS WENT BACK AND WORTH FOR
EXPORTS, SO EVEN A LOT OF THAT'S
DIED DOWN.
ANYWAY, IT'S GOING TO MAKE A
HARD EFFORT TO KNIT THIS COUNTRY
TOGETHER.
BUT THE BIGGEST DISASTER FOR THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT IS JUST THE
MORALE DISASTER.
HERE POROSHENKO INSISTED THAT
THE UKRAINIAN MILITARY COULD
WITHSTAND THIS, CREATE THESE
FORTIFIED POSITIONS, AND IN THE
END IT ENDED IN A HORRIBLE
DEFEAT.
SO IT IS REALLY A SETBACK FOR
BOTH HIM AND THE MILITARY
LEADERSHIP.
>> Ifill: WE JUST SAW
PRESIDENT POROSHENKO BASICALLY
TALKING ABOUT THE U.S. ANDINE
NATIONS COMING TO HIS SUPPORT
AND DEFENSE BUT SEEMS LIKE FOR
ALL INTENTS AND PURPOSES THE
CEASE FIRE WE TALKED ABOUT JUST
LAST WEEK HAS COLLAPSED.
>> EVEN THOUGH THE U.S. AND
GERMANY AND WESTERN POWERS
AREN'T WILLING TO ADMIT THAT AND
IT'S INTERESTING THEY WON'T --
THEY WON'T DECLAREIT  DEAD, THEY
JUST WON'T ANNOUNCE IT HAPPENED.
BUT THEY SAID IN OTHER WAYS THE
CEASE FIRE HAS TAKEN HOLD.
RUSSIA SIGNED ON TO THIS LAST LT
WEEK.
WAY DON'T WANT ANY GAINS IN
QUESTIONING THE CONFLICT TO
EVAPORATE.
>> Ifill: HE DOESN'T HAVE ANY
OTHER OPTIONS.
>> WELL, POROSHENKO DOESN'T HAVE
ANY OTHER OPTIONS, BUT PUTIN IS
DEFINITELY DRIVING THIS TRAIN,
NO DOUBT ABOUT IT.
SO THE U.S. AND GERMANY ARE
SAYING, WELL, IN THE END, LESS
ABOUT IMPLEMENTING THE SEPTEMBER
MINSK DEAL CAUSING THE
WITHDRAWING OF THE WEAPONRY,
RESOLVING THE CONFLICT, UNTIL
PUTIN SAYS WE'RE NOT WILLING.
>> Ifill: SOME PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN URGING HEM ALL ALONG TO ARM
THE GOVERNMENT.
>> OH, YES, BECAUSE THERE REALLY
ARE ONLY TWO OPTIONS, ONE THE
GERMAN APPROACH WHICH IS THE
SLOW, STEADY APPLICATIONS OF
SANCTIONS, AND LOVE TO SAY
WITHOUT THE BEER LIP WALL THEY
WOULD HAVEN'T FALLEN THE WAY
THEY DID.
THE OTHER IS THE ARMING OF THE
UKRAINIAN MILITARY.
BOTH EUROPEAN AND AMERICAN
DIPLOMATS SAID TO ME TODAY THE
UKRAINIAN MILITARY JUST PROVED
ITSELF SO INCOETENMPT THAT HOW
DO YOU SEND SEND IN MORE
SOPHISTICATED WEAPONS WITHOUT
SENDING IN N.A.T.O. TRAINERS TO
TRAIN THEM?
IN THE END, GWEN, UKRAINE IS SO
MUCH MORE IMPORTANT TO RUSSIA
THAN IT IS TO EITHER THE U.S. OR
EUROPE.
JUST THINK IF IT WAS MEXICO.
YOU KNOW, SO PUTIN'S MADE IT
CLEAR, YOU ARM THE UKRAINIANS,
I'LL MATCH YOU DOLLAR FOR
DOLLAR, AND ONE DIPLOMAT SAID TO
ME, YOU KNOW, HOW FAR ARE WE
READY TO GO DOWN THAT PATH?
>> SOUNDS LIKE WE GO THROUGH THE
MOTIONS BUT THAT THE CURRENT
THINKING IS THAT WE STEP BACK
AND LET IT JUST PLAY OUT ON ITS
OWN?
>> NOBODY REALLY KNOWS WHAT THE
THINKING OF THE WHITE HOUSE IS.
SO PRESIDENT OBAMA SAYS THAT
REMAINS ON THE TABLE.
BUT IT CERTAINLY -- PRACTICALLY,
IT LOOKS LIKE A DIFFICULT OPTION
FOR THE REASONS I JUST SAID, AND
ALSO THAT POR POROSHENKO'S OWN
GOVERNMENT COULD BE IN TROUBLE
BECAUSE IT UNDERCUTS HIS IMAGE
OF COMPETENCE AT HOME WHICH
MAKES IT HARD FOR HIM TO DO THE
ECONOMIC REFORMS HE NEEDS TO DO.
SO OUR FRIEND IN THIS FIGHT,
UKRAINE, IS REALLY STRUGGLING.
>> Ifill: SOUNDS LIKE A
HAMSTER WHEEL TO ME.
MARGARET WARNER, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> AS ALWAYS.
>> Woodruff: NOW, HOW TO COMBAT
VIOLENT EXTREMISM.
THAT WAS THE FOCUS OF A
GATHERING AT THE WHITE HOUSE
TODAY.
>> THESE TERRORISTS ARE A THREAT
FIRST AND FOREMOST TO THE
COMMUNITIES THAT THEY TARGET,
WHICH MEANS, COMMUNITIES HAVE TO
TAKE LEAD IN PROTECTING
THEMSELVES.
>> Woodruff: BEING CAREFUL NOT
TO FAULT A SET OF RELIGIOUS
BELIEFS, THE PRESIDENT URGED
RELIGIOUS LEADERS TO DO MORE TO
DEFEAT THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP
AND SIMILAR, RADICAL
ORGANIZATIONS.
HE SAID THE THREE-DAY SUMMIT WAS
DESIGNED TO PREVENT TERRORISTS
FROM INSPIRING MORE FOLLOWERS,
NOT TO SINGLE OUT MUSLIMS.
>> AND WHEN ALL OF US TOGETHER
ARE DOING OUR PART TO REJECT THE
NARRATIVES OF VIOLENT
EXTREMISTS.
WHEN ALL OF US ARE DOING OUR
PART TO BE VERY CLEAR ABOUT THE
FACT THAT THERE ARE CERTAIN
UNIVERSAL PRECEPTS AND VALUES
THAT NEED TO BE RESPECTED IN
THIS INTERCONNECTED WORLD,
THAT'S THE BEGINNING OF A
PARTNERSHIP.
>> Woodruff: BEYOND THE
BRUTALITY THAT ISLAMIC STATE HAS
MADE ITS GRUESOME CALLING CARD,
IT HAS ALSO FOCUSED ON LURING
RECRUITS FROM AROUND THE WORLD
TO JOIN ITS RANKS.
SOPHISTICATED WEB-BASED MEDIA,
MUCH OF IT IN ENGLISH, IS AIMED
AT POTENTIAL RECRUITS.
MORE THAN 3,000 WESTERNERS HAVE
REPORTEDLY TRAVED TELO SYRIA TO
JOIN ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS.
WHILE MOST OF THE RECRUITS ARE
EUROPEAN, IT'S CAUSE FOR CONCERN
IN THE U.S. AS WELL.
THE FOCUS OF TODAY'S SUMMIT WAS
TO HIGHLIGHT DOMESTIC EFFORTS TO
ENGAGE LOCAL COMMUNITIES IN
COUNTERING RADICALIZATION.
BUT THE FOCUS OF THE SUMMIT HAS
ITSELF COME UNDER ATTACK
SOME CONSERVATIVES HAVE
CRITICIZED PRESIDENT OBAMA FOR
AVOIDING THE TERM ISLAMIC
EXTREMISM.
WHILE MUSLIM GROUPS ARGUE THE
SUMMIT IS UNFAIRLY SINGLING OUT
MUSLIMS AND ISLAM
U.S. REPRESENTATIVE KEITH
ELLISON OF MINNESOTA, THE FIRST
MUSLIM MEMBER OF CONGRESS,
HIGHLIGHTED ANOTHER CONCERN:
THAT OUTREACH TO MUSLIM
COMMUNITIES IS A COVER FOR
SURVEILLANCE
>> WE REINFORCE THE FALSE
NARRATIVE THAT AMERICA IS AT WAR
WITH ISLAM WHEN WE APPEAR TO
VIOLATE OUR OWN REQUIREMENTS OF
THE CONSTITUTION REGARDING
SURVEILLANCE WHEN WE MIX
SURVEILLANCE AND OUTREACH.
THIS IS A VERY SHORT SIGHTED
THING TO DO.
>> Woodruff: THE SUMMIT COMES
AFTER TWO HIGH-PROFILE ATTACKS
IN EUROPE THIS YEAR.
A DANISH MUSLIM MAN, RADICALIZED
IN PRISON, SHOT UP A FREE SPEECH
MEETING AND A SYNAGOGUE IN
COPENHAGEN OVER THE WEEKEND.
AND ANN HIDALGO, THE MAYOR OF
PARIS, SPOKE TODAY, HER CITY
STILL REELING FROM LAST MONTH'S
KILLINGS AT "CHARLIE HEBDO"
MAGAZINE, AND A KOSHER GROCERY.
FRENCH-BORN GUNMEN CLAIMING
ALLEGIANCE TO AN AL QAEDA GROUP
RESPONSIBLE.
>> ( translated ): REGARDLESS OF
ONE'S RELIGION OR ONE'S ORIGIN,
EVERYBODY IN PARIS MUST FIND A
WAY TO SUCCESS, INTEGRATION, AND
FULFILLMENT.
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW, THE
SUMMIT'S FOCUS MOVES TO COUNTER-
EXTREMISM OVERSEAS.
FOR MORE ON THE CONFERENCE AND
THE FIGHT AGAINST EXTREMISM, I'M
JOINED NOW BY ZAINAB AL-SUWAIJ,
CO-FOUNDER AND EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE AMERICAN ISLAMIC
CONGRESS.
AND MATTHEW LEAVITT, THE
DIRECTOR OF THE  PROGRAM ON
COUNTERTERRORISM AND
INTELLIGENCE AT THE WASHINGTON
INSTITUTE.
HE WAS DEPUTY ASSISTANT
SECRETARY FOR INTELLIGENCE AND
ANALYSIS AT THE U.S. DEPARTMENT
OF THE TREASURY AND AN F.B.I.
COUNTERTERRORISM ANALYST.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
"NewsHour".
MATTHEW LEAVITT, HOW MUCH IS
KNOWN ABOUT WHY PEOPLE ARE DRAWN
TO THE KIND OF EXTREMISM WE'RE
SEEING TODAY.
>> A LOT IS KNOWN AND ONE OF THE
THINGS YOU WILL HEAR COMING OUT
OF THIS CONFERENCE IS HOW MUCH
MORE NEEDS TO BE DONE AND HOW
MUCH MORE EMPIRICAL RESEARCH WE
NEED.
IF SOMEONE ANSWERS HOW ARE
PEOPLE RADICALIZED EASILY, DON'T
LISTEN TO THEM.
IT'S MADE UP OF A DIFFERENT
ISSUE OF COMBINATIONS AND
CIRCUMSTANCES.
WHILE LOCAL GRIEVANCES FACTOR
IN, INCLUDING ACCESS TO
EDUCATION AND JOB OPPORTUNITIES
AND WHETHER ONE FEELS ONE IS
FULLY, FOR EXAMPLE, FRENCH
ORDAINISH OR AMERICAN ALONG WITH
OTHER IDENTITIES, THERE ARE ALSO
IDEOLOGICAL ISSUES.
THE PRESIDENT WAS QUITE CLEAR
TODAY, REALLY THE FIRST TIME
I'VE HEARD HIM THIS CLEAR IN THE
NEED TO CONTEST THOSE IDEOLOGIES
AS WELL, BOTH DEALING WITH THE
COMMUNITY ISSUES -- VERY
IMPORTANT -- AND ALSO THE
COUNTERNARRATIVE.
>> Woodruff: ZAINAB AL-SUWAIJ,
WHAT WOULD YOU ADD TO THAT?
>> WHAT THE PRESIDENT EMPHASIZED
TODAY THAT THE WAR IS NOT
AGAINST ISLAM BUT AGAINST
RADICAL EXTREMISTS, COMMITTING
CRIMES IN THE NAME OF ISLAM.
A LOT OF PEOPLE WERE A PART OF
THE SUMMIT TODAY AND THEY WERE
EMPHASIZING ON THE SAME MESSAGE,
THE IDEOLOGY WAS OF RADICAL
EXTREMISTS.
IT'S BEEN DEMONSTRATED IN A VERY
VIOLENT WAY AGAINST SO MANY
PEOPLE AND MUSLIMS ARE THE FIRST
VICTIMS OF THAT.
THE MESSAGE WAS CLEAR IN TERMS
OF WHAT ARE THE MEASURES THAT WE
SHOULD BE TAKING?
WHAT ARE THE THINGS WE SHOULD BE
DOING DIFFERENTLY TO OVERCOME
THIS PROBLEM?
>> BEFORE WE GET TO THAT, WHAT
WOULD YOU ADD TO OUR
UNDERSTANDING OF WHY PEOPLE
ESPECIALLY YOUNG PEOPLE ARE
DRAWN TO THIS IDEOLOGY?
>> THERE ARE SO MANY DIFFERENT
REASONS.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
RECRUITING THESE YOUNG PEOPLE,
WHETHER HERE IN THE WESTERN
WORLD OR IN THE MIDDLE EAST,
PROVIDING THEM WITH EXTREME
IDEOLOGIES THROUGH BOOKS,
THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA, THROUGH
SERMONS SOMETIMES, AND
RECRUITING THESE YOUNG PEOPLE IN
THE NAME OF RELIGION, IN THE
NAME OF GOD, AND MANY PEOPLE GET
DRAWN INTO THAT.
>> Woodruff: MATTHEW LEAVITT,
WE KNOW SOME EFFORTS HAVE BEEN
MADE, ADMINISTRATION TALKING
ABOUT PILOT PROGRAMS IN A FEW
CITIES NOW, DO YOU HAVE A SENSE
THEY'RE MOVING IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION, GETTING CLOSER TO
THESE COMMUNITIES, TRYING TO
TALK TO THEM ABOUT WHAT TO WATCH
OUT FOR?
I MEAN, DO YOU HAVE A SENSE THAT
THEY'RE MOVING IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION?
>> IT'S TAKE AN LONG TIME BUT WE
ARE NOW FINALLY MOVING IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION AND ONE OF THE
THINGS I LIKE ABOUT THE THREE
PILOT PROGRAMS IN LOS ANGELES,
MINNEAPOLIS AND BOSTON IS
THEY'RE NOT THE SAY.  EACH IS
TAILORED TO THE CIRCUMSTANCES
THEY FIND IN THOSE PARTICULAR
COMMUNITIES.
AS ZAINAB AL-SUWAIJ AND SRI
SAID, SO MANY THINGS CAN LEAD
PEOPLE TO EXTREMISM, SOME DRIVEN
BY IDEOLOGY, SOME OPPORTUNITY,
MANY ARE GOING TO SYRIA AND IRAQ
FOR ADVENTURE, A PERCENTAGE FROM
BROKEN HOMES AND BACKGROUNDS IS
MUCH LARGER THAN WE'VE EREV
SEEN.
EACH OF THE COMMUNITIES IS
DIFFERENT AND WE NEED TO TAILOR
THESE ISSUES.
YOU NEED TO COUNTER THE
NARRATIVE AND WORK WITH
COMMUNITIES -- COMMUNITY
POLICING AND OUTREACH AND
BUILDING TRUST WITH THE
COMMUNITIES.
AS ZAINAB SAID, PEOPLE ARE
CARRYING OUT ACTS OF VIOLENT
EXTREMISM IN THE NAME OF
IDEOLOGIES AND ISLAM.
PEOPLE ARE DOING IT IN THE NAME
OF THAT RELIGION.
THAT NEEDS TO BE CONTESTED.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE THINGS
THE PRESIDENT SAID IS WHILE
RELIGION IS NOT SOLELY
RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS, HE SAID
MUSLIM LEADERS HAVE A
RESPONSIBILITY TO TALK TO PEOPLE
IN THEIR COMMUNITY ABOUT THIS.
IS THAT BEING DONE NOW?
IS IT BEING DONE ENOUGH?
WHAT MORE NEEDS TO BE DONE?
>> IT'S BEING DONE ON MANY
DIFFERENT LEVELS AND MANY
DIFFERENT FRONTS.
I CAN TELL YOU ABOUT A PROGRAM
AMERICAN ISLAM CONGRESS IS DOING
CALLED PROJECT NORTH IN OVER 55
COLLEGE CAMPUSES, WHEN WE HAVE
YOUNG MUSLIM STUDENTS INVOLVED
IN COUNTERING RADICALISM AND
VIOLENCE, EXTREMISM, AND THEY
JUST LAUNCHED A CAMPAIGN CALLED
VOICES AGAINST RADICALISM, WHEN
THESE YOUNG STUDENTS FROM THESE
55 COLLEGES AROUND THE COUNTRY,
TAKING THE INITIATIVE TO
ENCOUNTER SUCH A RADICAL
MOVEMENT THAT THEY ARE FACING.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS AN
EXAMPLE OF THE MESSAGE THAT THEY
ARE TRYING TO CONVEY TO THESE
YOUNG PEOPLE?
>> THERE ARE SO MANY DIFFERENT
MESSAGES.
SOME OF THEM, THE IDEA OF
VICTIMHOOD THAT'S BEEN SPREAD.
THE WESTERN WORLD IS AGAINST
YOU, THE WESTERNERS ARE OUT TO
GET YOU, TO GET ISLAM.
PEOPLE OF A YOUNG AGE MAYBE
WHERE ARE BULLIED AT SCHOOL,
HAVING PROBLEMS, AND THEY JOIN
IN INTO THESE IDEOLOGIES EASILY,
GET RECRUITED AND SHIPPED
SOMEWHERE TO FIGHT ALONGSIDE
THESE RADICAL GROUPS.
>> Woodruff: MATTHEW LEAVITT,
CLEARLY THIS IS A LONG PROCESS,
WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE IN THE
NEAR TERM TO MAKE PROGRESS?
ARE WE TALKING MORE PILOT
PROGRAMS?
MORE PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY
INVOLVED?
WHAT'S NEEDED?
>> YES.
WE NEED MORE PROGRAMS LIKE THESE
THREE PILOT PROGRAMS THAT GET
THE ATTENTION OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT AND GET FUNDING.
I KEEP TELLING PEOPLE IT'S
WONDERFUL FOR THE PRESIDENT TO
HOST AND SPEAK AT THE
CONFERENCE, SHOW ME THE MONEY.
THERE ARE PROGRAMS NOW,
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND OTHERS
ARE PUTTING IN PLACE, TO SECURE
FUNDING FOR THESE TYPES OF
PROGRAMS THAT WILL BE CARRIED
OUT BY LOCAL N.G.O.s,
COMMUNITY GROUPS THAT ARE DOING
FANTASTIC WORK, BUT WE NEED TO
PUT IN PLACE THE ABILITY FOR THE
PROGRAMS TO EXIST OVER THE LONG
TERM.
THIS WILL TAKE SIGNIFICANT
INVESTMENT IN TIME AND MANPOWER
AND, YES, MONEY.
>> Woodruff: WE HEAR YOU BOTH.
SOMETHING THAT WILL TAKE TIME.
MATTHEW LEAVITT, ZAINAB
AL-SUWAIJ, IT'S GOOD TO HAVE YOU
BOTH WITH US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: IF IT'S POSSIBLE FOR
AN ENTIRE MAJOR METROPOLITAN
CITY TO BE UNDER THE WEATHER,
BOSTON FITS BI
WINTER.
THE LATEST ROUND OF SNOWFALL
DUMPED ON NEW ENGLAND HAS
SHUTTERED SCHOOLS, STALLED MASS
TRANSIT, AND SMOTHERED AN ENTIRE
REGION.
AND, YES, THE FORECAST CALLS FOR
MORE SNOW THIS WEEKEND.
EMILY ROONEY OF WGBH LOOKS AT
HOW TOUGH NEW ENGLANDERS ARE
COPING WITH THE PRESENT, AND
PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE.
E STORMS HAVE ALL HAD
DIFFERENT NAMES.
JUNEAU, CURRY, NEPTUNE,
OCTAVIA -- BUT THEY ALL LOOK THE
SAME TO US.
IT'S NOT THAT WE AREN'T USED TO
SNOW IN BOSTON, WE ARE.
IT'S JUST THAT THERE'S BEEN SO
MUCH COMING SO FAST WITH NO END
IN SIGHT.
DURING TORRENTIAL WINTER
DOWNPOURS, NEW ENGLANDERS LIKE
TO SAY, IMAGINE IF THIS WAS
SNOW.
THIS WINTER, WE'VE BEEN ROBBED
OF OUR IMAGINATION.
SINCE JANUARY 27th, BOSTONIANS
HAVE WEATHERED A RELENTLESS
STRING OF STORMS, DUMPING ALMOST
100 INCHES IN TOTAL, AND WITH NO
THAWS IN BETWEEN, IT'S LAYER
UPON LAYER, PILE UPON PILE.
>> WHEN IT SNOWS LIKE THIS,
WHERE DO YOU PUT THE SNOW?
>> THERE'S AN ONSTREET PARKING
BAN ON AND OFF FOR THREE WEEKS,
BUT DOESN'T MEAN MUCH.
CROWDED BROWN STONE
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE EXEMPT, YOU
CAN KEEP YOUR OWN CAR IN YOUR
OWN PRIVATE IGLOO AS LONG AS YOU
WANT.
>> EVERYWHERE YOU LOOK THERE ARE
MOUNTAINS AND SOMETIMES YOU SAY,
IS THERE A CAR UNDERNEATH THAT?
>> CANDACE ADMITS SHE DID NOT
DIG OUT THE SPOT WHERE HER CAR
IS CURRENTLY PARKED BUT SAYS SHE
DOES HER PART.
>> LIMITED PARKING ON THE SOUTH
END, DOING 5 MINUTES OF
SHOVELING HELPS EVERYONE.
>> Reporter: DAVID BRINKLEY IS
HELPING A NEIGHBOR WHOSE CAR HAS
BEEN SOCKED IN FOR THREE WEEKS.
WHAT'S YOUR PLAN?
>> HOPEFULLY CUTTING ACROSS
HERE, AND IF I CAN GET OVER
THERE TO MAKE A PATHWAY.
>> IT KEEPS GOING UP LIKE
EVERYTHING ELSE.
>> WANTS HIM TO HELP GET THE CAR
OUT.
>> YEAH.
>> Reporter: NOT EVERYONE IS
SO FRIENDLY.
ACCORDING TO A LAW, YOU SHOVEL
IT, YOU OWN IT.
BOSTON'S SOUTH END IS TRYING TO
BAN SPACE SAVERS, TELL THAT TO
THE OWNERS OF TWO CARS WHO HAD
HAIR TIRES SLASHED FOR PARKING
IN A SPOT SOMEONE ELSE SHOVELED
OUT.
HERE'S A NOTE TO ANOTHER
NEIGHBOR WHO DISREGARDED THE
SPACE SAVER -- YOU ARE AN IDIOT,
IT BEGINS.
SO WHY WOULD ANYONE TRY TO DRIVE
IN THIS?
SIMPLE ANSWER, THEY HAVE TO.
DESPITE EFFORTS TO KEEP THE
RAILS CLEAR, THE MASSACHUSETTS
BAY TRANSIT AUTHORITY OR SIMPLY
THE T WAS FORCED TO SHUT DOWN
AND IS STILL RUNNING ON A
LIMITED SCHEDULE.
MBTA OFFICIALS SAY IT COULD BE
UP TO A MONTH BEFORE THE SYSTEM
IS BACK TO NORMAL.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE A WHILE
BEFORE PEOPLE SEE WHAT YOU WANT
TO SEE OUT IN THE COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: BOSTON MAYOR
MARTY WALSH HAS ALSO BEEN ON
DEFENSE UNDER FIRE FOR LETTING
SNOW PILE UP BEFORE ASKING FOR
THE NATIONAL GUARD AND FOR NOT
GETTING SNOW MELTERS ON THE ROAD
SOONER.
THEN THERE WAS THE LITTLE MATTER
OF A SUPER BOWL CELEBRATION, A
PARADE SCHEDULED FOR A
WEDNESDAY, JUST TWO DAYS AFTER A
TWO-FOOT SNOW DUMP.
RESIDENTS SAY THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD
SUFFERED WHILE THE PARADE ROUTE
WAS CLEARED.
>> THEY ARE DEFINITELY DOING
THAT.
>> WELL, THEY'RE NOT AROUND
HERE.
>> Reporter: ALREADY, BOSTON
PUBLIC SCHOOLS CLOSED EIGHT
TIMES FORCING THE CITY TO CANCEL
UPCOMING SCHOOL HOLIDAYS AND
POSSIBLY ONE SCHOOL VACATION
WEEK.
AND THE TRIAL OF ACCUSED
MARATHON BOMBING SUSPECT HAS
BEEN ALSO BEEN DELAYED.
EVEN THE WHEELS OF JUSTICE TURN
SLOWER IN THE SNOW.
THEN THE REAL THREAT OF ROOF
COLLAPSES.
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIALS ARE
WARNING PEOPLE TO CLEAR ROOFS AS
DOZENS OF HOMES AND BUSINESSES
HAVE CAVED IN UNDER THOUSANDS OF
POUNDS OF SNOW.
>> I THOUGHT I WOULD BE DONE
LAST NIGHT.
>> Reporter: ICICLES AND ICE
STANDS ARE ANOTHER ISSUE.
CALL A ROOFER AND THE ANSWERING
MACHINE SAYS, SORRY, TOO BUSY TO
RESPOND.
BUT AS IN ANY WINTER
SNOWMAGEDDON, THERE'S ALWAYS A
SILVER LINING.
>> LOOK AT THAT!
>> Reporter: NOW THAT
TOWNHOUSES ON BEACON HILL ARE
SUITABLE FOR WHAT OUR
FOREFATHERS HAD IN MIND, SKI IN,
SKI OUT.
FROM BOSTON, EMILY ROONEY, WGBH,
REPORTING FOR THE "NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: THE BOSTON MAYOR IS
DEALING WITH ANOTHER ANNOYANCE
BROUGHT ON BY THE WEATHER--
PEOPLE FILMING THEMSELVES
JUMPING OUT OF WINDOWS INTO SNOW
BANKS, AND POSTING THE VIDEOS ON
SOCIAL MEDIA.
FILED UNDER "DON'T TRY THIS AT
HOME," WE HAVE THE STORY, ON OUR
HOME PAGE.
>> Ifill: EVEN SNOWFALL CAN
SPARK DEBATE.
SOME SAY IT'S PROOF GLOBAL
WARMING DOES NOT EXIST.
OTHERS ARGUE IT IS
PROOF CLIMATE CHANGE
IS BEHIND THE EXTREME WEATHER.
IT'S JUST ANOTHER EXAMPLE WHERE
SCIENCE AND DOUBT FEED ON EACH
OTHER.
WE WONDERED WHETHER THAT DIVIDE,
WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL A CULTURE OF
DISBELIEF, IS TAKING HOLD.
>> I THINK EVERY PARENT HAS A
RIGHT TO CHOOSE WHAT IS IN THE
BEST INTEREST OF THEIR CHILDREN.
IF YOU GO ONLINE AND YOU READ
THERE'S HORRIFIC STORIES.
>> Ifill: THOSE STORIES ARE
ABOUT VACCINES AND IT'S E KITHND
OF MISINFORMATION THAT HEALTH
OFFICIALS SAY HAS DANGEROUS
CONSEQUENCES.
MORE THAN 140 CASES OF MEASLES
HAVE SURFACED IN 17 STATES.
THAT'S IN UNDER TWO MOHS.NT
THERE WERE NEARLY 700 CASES ALL
OF LAST YEAR, A DECADE AGO,
THERE WERE FEWER THAN 50
MOST WHO'VE GOTTEN SICK THIS
YEAR, INCLUDING IN AN OUTBREAK
AT CALIFORNIA'S DISNEYLAND, WERE
NOT VACCINATED.
THIS, IN SPITE OF EFFORTS FROM
HEALTH OFFICIALS TO CALM DOUBTS
ABOUT THE VACCINES THEMSELVES.
>> THEY KNOW THEY ARE SAFE, THAT
THEY ARE EFFECTIVE WHEN IT COMES
TO MEASLES AND THEY ARE WHAT THE
SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY RECOMMENDS
FOR PATIENTS.
>> Ifill: FOR MANY, THE DEBATE
OVER WHAT IS TRUE AND WHAT IS
BELIEVABLE EXTENDS FAR AND WIDE.
ACCORDING TO THE PEW RESEARCH
CENTER, 86% OF SCIENTISTS THINK
CHILDHOOD VACCINES SHOULD BE
REQUIRED.
BUT JUST 68% OF U.S. ADULTS
AGREE.
ON ANOTHER HOT BUTTON ISSUE--
CLIMATE CHANGE-- THE GULF IS
EVEN WIDER.
87% OF SCIENTISTS BELIEVE
CLIMATE CHANGE IS CAUSED BY
HUMAN ACTIVITY.
ONLY HALF OF ADULTS AGREE.
THE BIGGEST GAP IN THE PEW
SURVEY: THE SAFETY OF
GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOODS.
88% OF SCIENTISTS SAY THEY'RE
OKAY TO EAT, BUT ONLY 3% OF7
ADULTS SURVEYED BUY INTO THAT.
NO MATTER WHAT THE SCIENTISTS
SAY, THE DISCONNECT EXTENDS
OTHER DIVISIVE ISSUES AS WELL,
INCLUDING EVOLUTION AND THE
VALUE OF USING ANIMALS IN
RESEARCH.
WE'RE JOINED BY ITS AUTHOR, JOEL
ACHENBACH, A WRITER FOR "THE
WASHINGTON POST."
AND, CARY FUNK, THE ASSOCIATE
DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH AT THE PEW
RESEARCH CENTER
TEAMING UP WITH SOME OF THE
INTERESTING NUMBERS WE SAWVMENT
JOEL, WHY IS NOTHING SETTLED?
>> EVERYTHING IS CONTESTED NOW.
I THINK ONE OF THE DIFFERENCES
TODAY IS JUST THE INTERNET.
IT HAS CHANGED THE WHOLE
INFORMATION UNIVERSE.
IT'S DEMOCRATIZED, SMALL D,
INFORMATION OUT THERE.
THERE ARE FEWER SORT OF
GATEKEEPERS OF KNOWLEDGE.
INSTEAD, PEOPLE GO OUT AND SEEK
INFORMATION AND THEY OFTEN FIND
WHAT THEY'RE LOOKING FOR, THE
THAT REINFORCES THEIR BELIEF.
THE INTERNET, YOU KNOW, IT
DOESN'T FACILITATE CONSENSUS AS
ANYOE HANS NOTICED WHO'S GONE ON
THE INTERNET.
INSTEAD, IT CREATES THESE SORT
OF FILTER BUBBLES, THESE RABBIT
HOLES, THESE ECHO CHAMBERS AND
THESE COMMUNITIES OF ALTERNATIVE
KNOWLEDGE DEVELOP THAT OFTEN ARE
IN OPPOSITION TO THE SCIENTIFIC
MAIN STREAM.
>> Ifill: SO YOU CAN
SELECTIVELY FIND SOMETHING TO
SUPPORT WHATEVER YOU BELIEVE.
>> WHATEVER YOU BELIEVE.
>> Ifill: AS YOU WERE DOING
THE RESEARCH, CARY FUNK, DO
PEOPLE GIVE REASONS FOR WHY THEY
ABSOLUTELY DISBELIEVE WHAT THE
SCIENTISTS SAY?
>> SOMETIMES.
WHEN IT GAME TO G.M. FOODS, WE
ASKED A FOLLOW-UP QUESTION OF
WHETHER SCIENTISTS HAVE A CLEAR
UNDERSTANDING OF THE EFFECTS OF
G.M. FOODS AND TWO-THIRDS SAID
NO, THEY DON'T.
IN THAT CAIRKS LOOKS LIKE
THERE'S SKEPTICISM ABOUT HOW
MUCH KNOWLEDGE THERE IS.
>> IS IT DEFINED BY GENDER, AGE
OR ANY OTHER KIND OF EDUCATIONAL
LEVEL?
>> I MEAN, THAT'S ACTUALLY
WHAT'S REALLY INTERESTING,
LOOKING ACROSS THIS SET OF
SCIENCE-RELATED TOPICS, IS IT
VARIES, DEPENDING ON THE ISSUE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
SO VACCINES HAS A STRONG
RELATIONSHIP WITH AGE.
YOUNGER ADULTS ARE LESS LIKELY
TO SAY VACCINES SHOULD BE
REQUIRED, BUT WHEN IT CAME TO
SOMETHING LIKE THE SAFETY OF
G.M. FOODS, AGE GROUPS DON'T
REALLY DIFFER.
>> ONE THING THAT'S DIFFERENT
ABOUT THE WORLD WE'RE IN
IS THIS IS SUCH A
HIGHLY-ENGINEERED WORLD THAT'S
MORE COMPLICATED THAN THE ONE
THAT MY GRANDMOTHER LIVED IN ON
THE FARM IN INDIANA.
I MEAN, SHE DIDN'T HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT GENETICALLY MODIFIED
FOODS.
SHE GREW HER OWN FOOD IN THE
GARDEN.
>> THERE'S NO QUESTION.
THAT WE
ARE FACED WITH THESE
TECHNOLOGICAL ISSUES THAT ARE
NOT INTUITIVE, THAT WE HAVE TO
DO A LOT OF RISK ANALYSIS OF
THINGS THAT WE DON'T KNOW VERY
MUCH ABOUT, AND ALL THE SCIENCE
WILL SAY, WELL, THISIS  THE
CONSENSUS ON IT, THIS IS THE
BEST SCIENCE HAS TO OFFER.
IT'S EASY NOWADAYS TO FIND
CONTRARIAN VIEWS,
ANTI-SCIENTIFIC VIEWS,
PSEUDOSCIENTIFIC VIEWS, WHETHER
BIG FOOT OR UFOs OR WHATEVER,
AND SOME OF THE ISSUES ARE I
THINK REALLY IMPORTANT ISSUES
FOR THE FUTURE OF THE PLANET.
CLIMATE CHANGE IS SUCH A
CONTENTIOUS ISSUE NOW, EVEN
THOUGH I HAVEN'T NEARLY AS
DIVISIVE JUST 15, 20 YEARS AGO.
>> Ifill: I WONDER WHETHER
THERE HAS ALWAYS BEEN A
COMMUNITY OF CONTRARIANS WHO
HAVE ALWAYS EXISTED AND WHETHER
THESE TYPES OF ISSUES ALLOW THE
EXISTENCE TO FLOURISH.
>> THE INTERNET AND RISE OF THE
INTERNET IS ONE SOURCE OF CHANGE
BUT SCIENTIFIC INNOVATION IS
PICKING UP THE PACE, HAPPENING
AT A FASTER PACE, AND SCIENCE IS
REALLY A BIG CONGLOMERATION OF
TOPICS.
IT'S NOT ONE THING.
SO THAT'S PART OF WHAT WE'RE
SEEING IS THAT THERE ARE LOTS OF
ATTITUDES THAT ARE INFLUENCED BY
LONG-STANDING VALUES, RELIGIOUS
BELIEFS, POLITICAL BELIEFS,
OTHER PERSONAL EXPERIENCES, AND
THAT'S ACTUALLY A LONG-STANDING
PATTERN WE'VE SEEN MANY YEARS IS
WE HAVE NEW ISSUES.
>> AND PEOPLE AREN'T NECESSARILY
ANTI-SCIENCE OF THESE VIEWS.
>> NO, BUT PEOPLE LOVE SCIENCE.
>> Ifill: THEY DO.
SIGSCIENTISTS HAVE AN ENORMOUS
AMOUNT OF RESPECT AND TRUST IN A
SOCIETY IN WHICH A LOT OF
INSTITUTIONS DO NOT ANYMORE.
I MEAN, LOOK ATING ON OR EVEN
THE NEWS -- LOOK AT CONGRESS OR
EVEN THE NEWS MEDIAER, BUT
SCIENTISTS IN GENERAL ARE
RESPECTED.
WHEN I DID MY NEWS INTERVIEWS
FOR THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC
STORY, I WAS STRUCK EVEN ON
CONNTIOTEN ISSUES, PEOPLE DON'T
SAY, I DON'T BELIEVE IN SCIENCE,
THEY SAY, WELL, I HAVE MY OWN
SET OF FACTS, MY OWN
INFORMATION, MY OWN SCIENCE.
>> Ifill: WERE YOU SURPRISED
HOW BIG THE GAPS WERE IN
AGREEMENT ON THIS, CARY?
>> YES, WE WERE.
WE WERE SURPRISED ABOUT THE SIZE
OF THE GAPS, THE 51 POINT GAP ON
THE SAFETY OF G.M. FOODS WAS
LARGER THAN I'VE SEEN OVER 30
YEARS, AS WELL AS THE FREQUENCY
OF GAPS ACROSS THE THIS SET OF
DIVERSE ISSUES.
>> Ifill: WHO BENEFITS WHEN
THE DIVIDE GOES THAT DEEPLY?
THERE CERTAINLY WITH AN INDUSTRY
OUT THERE INTERESTED IN KEEPING
THE DIFFERENCES ON DISPLAY.
>> I THINK THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
ARE DEMAGOGUES IN THE MEDIA
WORLD THAT BENEFIT FROM, YOU
KNOW, DIVIDING AND CONQUERING.
THEY WANT TO HAVE PEOPLE -- THEY
WANT TO SAY TRUST ONLY ME ON
THIS ISSUE.
I THINK THE STAKES ARE LARGE FOR
ALL OF US IN THIS MORE
TECHNOLOGICAL, ENGINEERED WORLD
WHERE WE NEED TO GET THIS STUFF
RIGHT.
JUST LAST WEEK THE NATIONAL
ACADEMY OF SCIENCES PUT OUT A
REPORT ON GEOENGINEERING, AND
ONE OF THE IDEAS IS SHOOTING UP
AEROSOLS INTO THE ATMOSPHERE TO
BLOCK SUNLIGHT TO COMBAT CLIMATE
CHANGE EVENTUALLY.
A VERY IFFY IDEA.
SHOULD WE DO SOMETHING LIKE
THAT?
THE PUBLIC NEEDS TO BE -- TO
UNDERSTAND HOW SCIENCE WORKS,
UNDERSTAND THE PROCESS OF IT,
AND WE ALL NEED TO TRY TO FIND
SOURCES THAT WE CAN TRUST THAT
ARE RELIABLE BECAUSE THE STAKES
ARE SO LARGE.
>> Ifill: THAT'S THE POINT,
SOURCES WE CAN TRUST THAT ARE
RELIABLE.
YOU CAN DECIDE WHAT YOU CONSIDER
YOUR SOURCE IS --
>> THIS SHOW RIGHT HERE.
>> Ifill: RIGHT AFTER THIS
PROGRAM.
I WONDER IF SKEPTICISM ISN'T
HELPFUL IN THE PUBLIC DEBATE, IN
THE PUBLIC ARENA?
>> THERE ARE SO MISH SHOES.
WHAT YOU BROUGHT UP IS AN
EXAMPLE OF HOW MUCH THERE WOULD
BE TO KNOW IF YOU TRIED TO MAST
INTEREST WHOLE UNIVERSE, AND
THAT'S PROBABLY NOT REALISTIC.
PEOPLE ARE BUSY, HAVE MULTIPLE
THINGS THEY DO IN THEIR LIVES
AND STUDYING ALL THE SCIENTIFIC
ISSUES IS PROBABLY NOT THE ONLY
THING THEY HAVE IN MIND.
>> YOU'RE EXACTLY RIGHT,
SKEPTICISM IS GOOD AND
SCIENTISTS ARE SKEPTICS.
DOUBT IS A TOOL IN SCIENCE AND
IT'S A TOOL IN JOURNALISM, TOO.
WE DON'T BELIEVE EVERYTHING
WE'RE TOLD.
WE TRY TO FIGURE OUT --
>> Ifill: NOT SUPPOSED TO.
NOT SUPPOSED TO.
>> Ifill: THERE HAS TO BE A
POLICY SOMEWHERE ALONG THE LINE.
>> I MEAN, THE QUESTION, IS FOR
SCIENTISTS, YOU CAN TAKE IT AWAY
HERE IS THE MOST RECENT POLL
SHOWED 87% OF SCIENTISTS THINK
THEY SHOULD BE EVOLVED WITH
POLICY -- INVOLVED WITH POLICY
ISSUES BUT INVOLVED IN WHAT WAY
IS THE QUESTION.
>> THAT REMAINS AN OPEN QUESTION
AND I THINK REALLY SCIENCE
ISSUES HAVE BECOME CIVIC ISSUES,
SO FOR THE PUBLIC AS WELL, THE
QUESTION IS, YOU KNOW, HOW DOES
THIS PLAY INTO THEIR POLICY
VIEWS.
>> IT'S VERY FASCINATING AND I
GET THE FEELING WE'LL SEE A LOT
MORE GAPS WIDENING.
CARY FUNK, JOEL ACHENBACH, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE LIFE AND
TIMES OF A PRIZE WINNING
PHOTOJOURNALIST WHO HAS COVERED
EVERY MAJOR INTERNATIONAL
CONFLICT IN THE PAST 15 YEARS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: CUBA, 1997.
CALCUTTA 2000.
AFGHANISTAN BEFORE AND AFTER THE
TALIBAN.
IRAQ WITH AMERICAN FORCES IN
BAGHDAD.
FAMINE AND WAR IN DARFUR.
AND LIBYA WHERE, IN 2011, SHE
WAS BOUND, BLINDFOLDED AND HELD
FOR SIX DAYS WITH THREE
JOURNALISTS BY SOLDIERS OF
GADHAFI.
LINSEY ADDARIO, ONE OF FOUR
GIRLS FROM A CONNECTICUT SUBURB,
TRAVELED THE WORLD AND TELLS HER
STORY IN A MESM WOIRKS IT'S WHAT
I DO, A PHOTOGRAPHER'S LIFE OF
LOVE AND WAR.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: YOU TELL OF AN
EXHIBITION WHERE YOU SEE
PHOTOGRAPHY CAN BE ART AND
JOURNALISM.
>> YEAH, IT WAS A MOMENT.
I HAD NO TRAINING IN
PHOTOJOURNALISM OR PHOTOGRAPHY,
SO I REALLY WAS LEARNING AS I
WENT ALONG.
I REMEMBER WALKING INTO THIS
EXHIBITION AND I WALKED IN AND
THE PRINTS WERE MASSIVE.
THEY WERE JUST WALL-SIZE.
I LOOKED AROUND AND I WAS SO
OVERCOME BY NOT ONLY THE BEAUTY
OF THE IMAGES BUT THE POWER OF
THE IMAGES AND THE FACT THEY
WERE SHOWING THE LIVES OF THESE
WORKERS.
>> Brown: WHAT DOES IT MAKE
YOU WANT TO DO?
>> IT MADE ME WANT TO DO THAT.
IT MADE ME WANT TO USE
PHOTOGRAPH TO TELL STORIES.
>> Brown: HOW DO YOU DO THAT?
GIVE ME AN EXAMPLE.
ONE FOCUS THROUGHOUT YOUR WORK
HAS BEEN ON WOMEN, FOR EXAMPLE,
ESPECIALLY IN THUSSO HOW DO YOUS
OF THEM?
>> I TRY -- FIRST OF ALL, I DO A
LOT OF RESEARCH BEFORE I EVEN
GO, SO PEOPLE THINK PHOTOGRAPHY
IS ABOUT LIFTING THE CAMERA AND
TAKING A PICTURE.
TO ME, IT'S SO MUCH ABOUT DOING
YOUR HOMEWORK, GOING INTO A
SITUATION, GETTING TO KNOW THE
SUBJECT, MAKING THEM FEEL
COMFORTABLE, GETTING INTIMATE
ACCESS, GETTING ACCESS TO ALL
DIFFERENT ASPECTS OF PEOPLE'S
LIVES SO THAT I AM ESSENTIALLY
TELLING AN ENTIRE STORY AND NOT
JUST A SINGLE ONE.
>> Brown: ALL THIS BEFORE
YOU'RE LIFTING THE CAMERA,
GETTING COMFORTABLE WITH THEM
AND THEIR LIVES?
>> ALL THIS IS BEFORE WE START
SHOOTING.
COVERING THE FRONT LINE, YOU
JUST GO IN, THERE IS SO MUCH
HAPPENING AROUND YOU, IT'S JUST
A MATTER OF SHOOTING, BUT WHEN
I'M DOCUMENTING, FOR EXAMPLE, A
STORY ON WOMEN IN AFGHANISTAN, I
WILL DO A HUGE AMOUNT OF
RESEARCH AND A LOT OF TIME ON
THE GROUND JUST GETTING TO KNOW
THE WOMEN BEFORE I EVEN START
SHOOTING.
>> Brown: IN COVERING FRONT
LINES OR IN OTHER DANGEROUS
SITUATIONS, YOU WRITE ABOUT HOW
IT'S NOT THAT YOU DON'T FEEL
FEAR, RIGHT, YOU DO FEEL FEAR,
BUT YOU FEEL SOMETHING ELSE.
WHAT'S THE COMPULSION TO BE
THERE?
>> WELL, I THINK I FEEL FEAR THE
ENTIRE TIME I'M ON THE GROUND
BECAUSE THE PROXIMITY TO DYING
IS SO OBVIOUS AND WHEN THERE ARE
BULLETS FLYING EVERYWHERE, OF
COURSE, IT'S TERRIFYING, BUT FOR
ME I TRY AND MANAGE THAT FEAR
AND COMPARTMENTALIZE IT WHILE
I'M WORKING AND PUT IT SOMEWHERE
AND CONTINUE TO PHOTOGRAPH.
BUT ALSO, WHEN I'M ACTUALLY IN
THAT SITUATION, AND I INITIALLY
FEEL THE FEAR, I FORGET THE
PHOTOGRAPH BECAUSE I'M TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO STAY ALIVE.
SO I REMEMBER IN THE VALLEY WE
HAD BEEN ON A SIX-DAY-LONG
OPERATION WITH THE 173r
173rd AIRBORNE BATTLE COMPANY
AND HAD BEEN DROPPED ON TO THE
SIDE OF A MOUNTAIN AND WERE
WALKING SIX DAYS AND WE WERE
AMBUSHED BY THE TALIBAN ON THE
SIXTH DAY AND HIT FROM THREE
SIDES AND I ACTUALLY HAD RUN OFF
ALONE TO FIND A PLACE TO GO TO
THE BATHROOM AND THE AM BUSH
STARTED.
WHEN I FINALLY MADE MY WAY DOWN
THE MOUNTAIN AND GOT BACK WITH
THE TROOPS, I STILL HADN'T TAKEN
A PICTURE, LIKE, FIVE MINUTES
INTO THE AM BUSH AND I HAD BEEN
LOOKING TO MY RIGHT AND TIM WAS
JUST STANDING THERE FILMING.
I THOUGHT, OH, MY GOD, I'M THE
WORST PHOTOGRAPHER EVER.
I'VE COMPLETELY FORGOTTEN.
>> Brown: EVEN MENTIONING HIS
NAME, TIM HEATHERRINGTON WHO
DIED DURING THE WORK, YOU JUST
GET ASKED ALL THE TIME WHY PUT
YOURSELF IN HARM'S WAY.
>> I GET ASKED THAT.
THEY ASK, DO YOU DO IT FOR THE
ADRENALINE?
NO.
I THINK AS A PERSON WHO COVERED
CONFLICT THE LAST 15 YEARS, I
DIDN'T VOLUNTARILY COVER WAR TO
BE A WAR PHOTOGRAPHER, THERE
WERE ISSUES I FELT WERE
IMPORTANT.
I'D GO TO COVER THE ISSUES AND
AT SOME POINT I WOULD GET PUGLED
INTO THE ACTUAL COMBAT BECAUSE
IT WAS PART OF THE STORY.
FOR ME,IST MORE ABOUT BEING
THERE, BEARING WITNESS TO
HISTORY, BEARING WITNESS TO
WHAT'S HAPPENING, WHAT OUR
COUNTRY, THE POSITION OUR
COUNTRY IS TAKING OVERSEAS.
I WANT POLICYMAKERS TO SEE THE
FRUITS OF THEIR DECISIONS,
BASICALLY, AND TO TRY AND
INFLUENCE FOREIGN POLICY.
>> YOU KNOW, IN THAT VERY
HARROWINSECTG ION OF THE BOOK
ABOUT THE CAPTURE OF WHAT
HAPPENED IN LIBYA, YOU WRITE
ABOUT THE DANGER IS GROWING,
YOUR SENSE OF IT IS GROWING,
YOU'RE WITH THREE OTHER
JOURNALISTS, ALL MEN, AND YOU
SAY I DIDN'T WANT TO BE THE
COWARDLY PHOTOGRAPHER OR THE
TERRIFIED GIRL WHO PREVENTED THE
MEN FROM DOING THE WORK.
YOU DIDN'T WANT TO SPEAK UP AND
SAY, HEY, GUYS, WE'VE GOT TO GET
OUT OF HERE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Brown: YOU'D ALREADY BEEN
AN EXPERIENCED PHOTOJOURNALIST
BUT YOU STILL FELT THAT?
>> I THINK I WILL ALWAYS FEEL --
I'M AWARE OF MY GENDER AND MY
COLLEAGUES ARE NOT.
MY COLLEAGUES WOULDN'T HAVE
CARED LESS HAD I BEEN THE ONE TO
SAY, HEY, LET'S GO.
I DO THINK THAT I WORK IN A
MAN'S WORLD.
NOT THAT MANY ARE WAR
PHOTOGRAPHERS.
THERE ARE CORRESPONDENTS, JUST
NOT MANY WOMEN WAR PHOTOGRAPHERS
AND I'M ALWAYS SORT OF AWARE OF
MY GENDER IN THOSE SITUATIONS,
AND I THINK AT SOME POINT STEVE
FARRELL SAID, HEY, IT'S TIME TO
GO.
I WAS, LIKE, I AGREE!
ME, TOO!
BUT IT WAS LATE AT THAT POINT.
I THINK WE ALL WERE VERY
CONSCIOUS OF THE FACT AFTER THE
FACT THAT WE HAD PUSHED THE
ENVELOPE.
>> Brown: YOU DO SAY HERE THAT
BECAUSE THIS IS ABOUT LOVE AS
WELL AS WAR, RIGHT, THAT EPISODE
CHANGED YOUR LIFE IN SOME WAY.
YOU DECIDED TO HAVE A CHILD
FINALLY WITH YOUR HUSBAND.
>> I DID.
I THINK IT WAS A COMBINATION OF
MANY THINGS.
I THINK IT WAS WHAT HAPPENED IN
LIBYA.
I THINK IT'S THE FACT TIM AND
CHRIS WERE KILLED IN LIBYA
EXACTLY A MONTH AFTER WE WERE
RELEASED AND THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" PHOTOGRAPHER HAD JUST
LOST HIS LEGS IN AFGHANISTAN AND
THEY WERE ALL FRIENDS AND I WAS
SEEING WHAT WAS HAPPENING AROUND
ME AND I HAD PUT MY PERSONAL
LIFE ON HOLD FOR 35 YEARS AND
FINALLY SAID, OKAY, NOW IT'S
TIME.
>> Brown: BUT YOU CONTINUE THE
WORK.
>> I DO CONTINUE THE WORK.
I AM STILL WORKING WAR ZONES BUT
I'M TRYING TO STAY SAFE AND
TRYING TO DO IT IN A WAY THAT I
AM NOT IN THE MIDDLE OF COMBAT.
I'M COVERING REFUGEES, I'M
COVERING THE HUMANITARIAN ASPECT
BUT LESS GOING INTO COMBAT.
>> Brown: THE MEMOIR, IT'S
WHAT I DO, LINSEY ADDARIO, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN SEE A SLIDE
SHOW OF SOME OF LYNSEY ADDARIO'S
PHOTOGRAPHS ON OUR WEBSITE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: NOW, A PROFILE OF
A MAN WHO'S TRULY BECOME A
PIONEER IN HELPING TO DEVELOP
ADVANCED ARM PROSTETHICS.
LAST WEEK, SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
MILES O'BRIEN, REPORTED ON
THE LATEST IN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS
AND THEIR LIMITATIONS.
TONIGHT, HE TELLS US THE
PERSONAL STORY OF AN AMPUTEE
WHO'S WILLING TO TAKE RISKS.
JOHNNY MATHENY IS THE CHUCK
YAGER OF ADVANCED ARM
PROSTHETICS.
HE HAS TESTED THEM ALL AND IS
PUSHING THE BARRIERS.
>> GET READY, GO.
HE IS A PIONEER.
MY WIFE TELLS ME THAT I'M THE
ONLY ONE THAT HAS HAD MY STUMP
IN EVERY ADVANCED PROSTHETIC IN
THE UNITED STATES.
YES, I WOULD SAY I'M A PIONEER
OF IT NOW.
>> Reporter: HE LOST HIS ARM
TO CANCER IN 2008.
UNABLE TO RETURN TO WORK AS A
RETAIL BREAD SALES AND DELIVERY
MAN, HE WAS LOOKING FOR A NEW
PURPOSE IN LIFE.
HE WANDERED IF HE COULD HELP
WOUNDED WARRIORS.
>> I SAID, I'VE HAD THREE
CHILDREN IN THE SERVICE.
I SAID, LUCKILY, THEY'VE COME
OUT WITH ALL THEIR EXTREMITIES
BUT THEY'VE HAD A LOT OF THEIR
BUDDIES THAT WEREN'T SO LUCKY
AND I WOULD LIKE TO MAYBE
CONTRIBUTE BACK FOR ALL THOSE
WHO HAVE GIVEN FOR US.
I WANT TO BE ABLE TO HAVE THEM
HAVE AN ARM TO PUT ON, GO IN,
TOUCH THE BABY'S CHEEK AND FEEL
THE SOFTNESS OF THE SKIN.
I WANT THEM TO BE ABLE TO CHANGE
THEIR DIAPERS AND KNOW THEY'VE
GOT IT RIGHT, IT WASN'T TOO
LOOSE OR TOO TIGHT.
WHAT I WANTED TO DO IS GET
MYSELF WORKED IN A WAY I COULD
CONTRIBUTE HELPING OUT WITH THE
NEW PROSTHETICS AND STUFF THAT
WOULD BE COMING ALONG.
I TELL YOU WHAT I'M DOING WITH
MY PHANTOM LIMB SO YOU WILL KNOW
HOW IT'S CREATING THIS HERE.
IT'S LIKE, RIGHT NOW, I'M
OPENING MY HAND UP.
>> Reporter: HE UNDERWENT
TARGETED MUSCLE REINNERVATION
WHICH CONTROLS HIS NERVES IN
MISSING LIMBS TO THOSE IN HIS
STUMP SO HE CAN BETTER CONTROL
THE PROSTHETIC LIMB DESIGNED AT
JOHNS HOPKINS.
HE IS IN A STUDY IN CLEVELAND
MEDICAL CENTER WHICH IS GIVING
ARM AMPUTEES SENSORY FEEDBACK
FROM THEIR PROSTHETIC.
AND HE'S INTERESTED IN
PARTICIPATING IN A STUDY OFOSIO
INTEGRATION PROSTHETICS WHICH
ARE IMPLANTED IN AN AMPUTEE'S
BONE.
AT AGE 60, JOHNNY BELIEVES HE'S
THE PERFECT PERSON TO TAKE THE
RISKS ON BEHALF OFOT
AMPUTEES.
>> I WOULD RATHER IT BE ME THAN
THEM BECAUSE THEY STILL HAVE
THEIR LIVES.
>> Reporter: JOHNNY TURNED
MISFORTUNE INTO AN OPPORTUNITY
TO CHANGE THE WORLD FOR THE
BETTER.
>> EVER SINCE I HAVE BEEN SMALL
I'VE ALWAYS THOUGHT THERE WAS A
REASON FOR THE SEASON.
SO CERTAIN THINGS HAPPEN TO YOU
IN YOUR LIFETIME, YOU KNOW
THERE'S A REASON FOR IT, AND,
MOST OF THE TIME, YOU KNOW, YOU
MAY NOT KNOW AT THE BEGINNING
WHAT IT IS, BUT EVENTUALLY YOU
FIGURE OUT WHY, AND THAT'S THE
WAY IT IS.
WHEN I LOST MY ARM, I HAD NOT A
CLUE, YOU KNOW, WHY I WOULD LOSE
MY ARM.
THEN ALL OF A SUDDEN, MAN, THIS
WORLD OPENED UP, I GOT ON THIS
TRAIN, AND I HAVE BEEN AT FULL
SPEED EVER SINCE.
IT JUST CAN'T SLOW ME DOWN.
>> Reporter: HE IS HELPING
RESEARCHERS BREAK THE BARRIER
BETWEEN ENGINEERING AND BIOLOGY.
>> IT'S A O.K., JOE.
>> Reporter: ONE INTREPID
VOLUNTEER MAKING BIONICS A
REALITY.
>> I WILL BE ABLE TO WALK DOWN
THE ROAD AND SEE SOME OF THE
ARMS I'VE WORKED WITH, TRIED, I
KNOW THEY WORK.
I'VE BETTERED SOMEBODY'S LIFE
AND CAN HOLD MY HEAD UP HIGH AND
THROW MY SHOULDERS BACK AND SAY,
YES, I HELPED THEM.
THAT'S MY PAYDAY.
>> Reporter: MILES O'BRIEN,
PBS "NewsHour", LAUREL,
MARYLAND.
>> OH, MY GOSH!
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
AFTER GOVERNMENT TROOPS LOST A
KEY RAILWAY TOWN TO REBELS,
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT PETRO
POROSHENKO CALLED FOR
INTERNATIONAL PEACEKEEPERS TO
MONITOR THE FRAGILE CEASE-FIRE.
AND, AT A WHITE HOUSE SUMMIT ON
VIOLENT EXTREMISM, PRESIDENT
OBAMA SAID THE U.S. IS NOT AT
WAR WITH ISLAM, BUT WITH THOSE
WHO HAVE PERVERTED THE RELIGION.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE-- ABC'S NEW SITCOM "FRESH
OFF THE BOAT" IS THE FIRST
NETWORK SHOW IN TWENTY YEAR TO
CENTER ON AN ASIAN-AMERICAN
FAMILY.
WHY DID IT TAKE SO LONG FOR TV
EXECUTIVES TO RECOGNIZE THIS
GROWING DEMOGRAPHIC?
AND HOW ARE THEY TACKLING COMMON
STEREOTYPES?
WE TALK TO TWO OF THE SHOW'S
PRODUCERS IN OUR WEEKLY TWITTER
CHAT, TOMORROW AT 1 P.M.
EASTERN.
FIND THE DETAILS ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, THE STORY OF YOUNG
YAZIDI GIRLS KIDNAPPED FROM
THEIR HOMES IN NORTHERN IRAQ BY
ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
THEY WERE FOUND OUT AT AN
ISLAMIC STATE CHECKPOINT AND
RETURNED TO THE CITY OF MOSUL
WHERE SHE WAS BOUGHT AND SOLD
AGAIN TO A MAN SHE SAYS RAPED
HER OVER AND OVER.
>> HE TOLD ME, IF YOU DON'T LET
ME HAVE SEX WITH YOU, I'LL SELL
YOU AGAIN.
I'LL SEND YOU TO SYRIA WHERE TEN
MEN WILL BE DOING THE SAME.
AND HE BEAT US.
SHE SAID.
>> SHE SAID SHE ATTEMPTED
SUICIDE TWICE, FIRST BY DRINKING
BLEACH AND SECONDLY BY
STRANGLING HERSELF WITH A SCARF.
DURING THE DARK DAYS SHE USE THE
ADD RAY SORRY AND PEN TO TATTOO
THE WORDS MOMMY AND DADDY I LOVE
YOU.
>> Ifill: THAT'S TOMORROW NIGHT
ON THE NEWSHOUR.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING, FOR ALL
OF US HERE AT THE PBS NEWSHOUR,
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.